ci for cmake's many way to use seqan3 as a library (#2366)
seqan/seqan3: test/external_project/CMakeLists.txt

#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_find_package/CMakeLists.txt with CMake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_installed/CMakeLists.txt with CMake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_fetch_content_zip/CMakeLists.txt with your current CMake version

# 1) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory/CMakeLists.txt
#    That means we use add_subdirectory directly on seqan3's top level CMakeLists.txt.
#    This will automatically call find_package and expose our seqan3::seqan3 target.
#    This is expected to work with CMake >= 3.4.
# (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)
ExternalProject_Add (
    seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory
    PREFIX seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory
    SOURCE_DIR "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory"
    CMAKE_COMMAND "${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND}"
    CMAKE_ARGS
        ${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS}
        "-DSEQAN3_ROOT=${SEQAN3_ROOT}"
        "-DCMAKE_FIND_DEBUG_MODE=${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE}"
)

# 2) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_find_package/CMakeLists.txt

> #    We have seqan3 checkout somewhere and we point CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH to <checkout>/seqan3/build_system

Author: ```suggestion
#    We have a seqan3 checkout somewhere and we point CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH to <checkout>/seqan3/build_system
```

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Copyright (c) 2006-2019, Knut Reinert & Freie Universität Berlin

> # Copyright (c) 2016-2019, Knut Reinert & MPI für molekulare Genetik

Author: I have written it in 2019 so it is technically correct 🤣

# This file may be used, modified and/or redistributed under the terms of the 3-clause BSD-License
# shipped with this file and also available at: https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/blob/master/LICENSE.md
# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

cmake_minimum_required (VERSION 3.4)
project (seqan3_test_external_project CXX)

include (../seqan3-test.cmake) # for SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS, SEQAN3_VERSION
include (ExternalProject)

set (SEQAN3_ROOT "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/../../")

if (NOT ${CMAKE_VERSION} VERSION_LESS 3.14) # cmake 3.14 version is needed to install seqan3.
    include (install-seqan3.cmake)
endif ()

option (SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE
        "Enable this option if you want to get a detailed list which paths were considered for find_package(...)"
        false)

if (NOT ${CMAKE_VERSION} VERSION_LESS 3.14) # cmake 3.14 version is needed to install cmake 3.4.
    set (SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND "${CMAKE_COMMAND}")
    include (use-cmake3.4.cmake) # ensure that seqan3 can be used with cmake 3.4

> else ()

Author: No if we have 3.14 all tests will be executed, if we have < 3.14, only some tests will be executed.

I see what you mean with confusing xD

    set (SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND "${CMAKE_COMMAND}")
endif ()

> 

Author: ```suggestion

# Since the above is a bit confusing, here is a list what happens:
#
# If your current cmake version is < 3.14 we
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory/CMakeLists.txt with your current cmake version
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_find_package/CMakeLists.txt with your current cmake version
#  * DON'T test test/external_project/seqan3_installed/CMakeLists.txt, because we need 3.14 to be able to
#    package seqan3 to execute the test.
#  * DON'T test test/external_project/seqan3_fetch_content_zip/CMakeLists.txt, because we need 3.14 in order to use
#    fetch_content
#
# If your current cmake version is >= 3.14 we
#  * we download cmake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory/CMakeLists.txt with cmake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_find_package/CMakeLists.txt with cmake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_installed/CMakeLists.txt with cmake 3.4
#  * test test/external_project/seqan3_fetch_content_zip/CMakeLists.txt with your current cmake version

```

Author: @eseiler Please edit it to your liking and then commit :)

> # 1) find_package: seqan3 is a submodule and we add it with add_subdirectory
> #    This should work with cmake >= 3.4.
> # (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)

Author: ```suggestion
# 1) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory/CMakeLists.txt
#    That means we use add_subdirectory directly on seqan3's top level CMakeLists.txt.
#    This will automatically call find_package and exposes our seqan3::seqan3 target.
#    This is expected to work with cmake >= 3.4.
# (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)
```

ExternalProject_Add (
    seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory
    PREFIX seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory
    SOURCE_DIR "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory"
    CMAKE_COMMAND "${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND}"
    CMAKE_ARGS
        ${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS}
        "-DSEQAN3_ROOT=${SEQAN3_ROOT}"
        "-DCMAKE_FIND_DEBUG_MODE=${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE}"
)

> # 2) find_package: seqan3 is a submodule and we only specify the path to `seqan3-config.cmake`
> #    This should work with cmake >= 3.4.
> # (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)

Author: ```suggestion
# 2) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_submodule_find_package/CMakeLists.txt
#    We have seqan3 somewhere checked-out and we point CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH to <checkout>/seqan3/build_system
#    and then use `find_package` to find `seqan3-config.cmake` which expose our `seqan3::seqan3` target.
#    This is expected to work with cmake >= 3.4.
# (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)
```

ExternalProject_Add (
    seqan3_submodule_find_package
    PREFIX seqan3_submodule_find_package
    SOURCE_DIR "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/seqan3_submodule_find_package"
    CMAKE_COMMAND "${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND}"
    CMAKE_ARGS
        ${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS}
        "-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=${SEQAN3_ROOT}/build_system"
        "-DCMAKE_FIND_DEBUG_MODE=${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE}"
)

> # 3) find_package: seqan3 is system-wide installed / PREFIX_INSTALL (unzipped)
> #    We need cmake >= 3.14 to be able to install seqan3.
> # (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)

Author: ```suggestion
# 3) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_installed/CMakeLists.txt
#    This test assumes that seqan3 was installed by make install (e.g. system-wide).
#    This is the way that most upstream packages, like debian, provide our library. 
#    This test assumes that `seqan3-config.cmake` can be found by cmake in some global paths like /usr/share/cmake/.
#
#    We simulate this by using our `make package` release, e.g. that we release under
#    https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/releases, and unzipping it to some folder and making
#    that path globally accessible by CMAKE_SYSTEM_PREFIX_PATH.
#    We need cmake >= 3.14 to be able to package seqan3, but we actually expect that this 
#    test works with cmake >= 3.4.
# (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)
```

if (NOT ${CMAKE_VERSION} VERSION_LESS 3.14) # cmake 3.14 version is needed to install seqan3.
    ExternalProject_Add (
        seqan3_installed
        PREFIX seqan3_installed
        SOURCE_DIR "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/seqan3_installed"
        CMAKE_COMMAND "${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_COMMAND}"
        CMAKE_ARGS
            ${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS}
            "-DCMAKE_SYSTEM_PREFIX_PATH=${SEQAN3_SYSTEM_PREFIX}"
            "-DCMAKE_FIND_DEBUG_MODE=${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE}"
    )
    add_dependencies(seqan3_installed seqan3_test_prerequisite)
endif ()

> # 4) find_package: seqan3 was downloaded as an archive file via fetch content (e.g. zip, tar.xz)
> #    FetchContent is a cmake >= 3.14 feature.
> # (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)

Author: ```suggestion
# 4) This tests test/external_project/seqan3_fetch_content_zip/CMakeLists.txt
#    It uses fetch_content (a cmake 3.14 feature) to download our zip-release (e.g. zip, tar.xz) from
#    https://github.com/seqan/seqan3/releases. fetch_content will automatically download, verify, extract it.
#    The user only needs to define CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH to be able to find our `seqan3-config.cmake`.
#    Note that FetchContent is a cmake >= 3.14 feature.
#    This is expected to work with cmake >= 3.4.
# (ExternalProject_Add simulates a fresh and separate invocation of cmake ../)
```

if (NOT ${CMAKE_VERSION} VERSION_LESS 3.14) # cmake 3.14 version is needed to use fetch_content.
    ExternalProject_Add (
        seqan3_fetch_content_zip
        PREFIX seqan3_fetch_content_zip
        SOURCE_DIR "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/seqan3_fetch_content_zip"
        CMAKE_ARGS
            ${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_CMAKE_ARGS}
            "-DSEQAN3_PACKAGE_ZIP_URL=${SEQAN3_PACKAGE_ZIP_URL}"
            "-DCMAKE_FIND_DEBUG_MODE=${SEQAN3_EXTERNAL_PROJECT_FIND_DEBUG_MODE}"
    )
    add_dependencies(seqan3_fetch_content_zip seqan3_test_prerequisite)

> endif ()

Reviewer: From looking at the CI,

`seqan3_installed` is run with cmake 3.4.3 because of the `CMAKE_COMMAND`
What is the command about 3.14 needed then?

`seqan3_fetch_content_zip` is run with cmake 3.14 because there is no `CMAKE_COMMAND`

Maybe you can write a few sentences about what is tested with what?
Why do we not test `seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory` and `seqan3_submodule_find_package` also with cmake 3.14? is it guaranteed to not break?

Author: > `seqan3_installed` is run with cmake 3.4.3 because of the `CMAKE_COMMAND`

Yes

> What is the comment about 3.14 needed then?

Our install script of seqan3 needs cmake version 3.14.

> `seqan3_fetch_content_zip` is run with cmake 3.14 because there is no `CMAKE_COMMAND`

Correct

> Maybe you can write a few sentences about what is tested with what?

Okay, I'm not completely sure how to describe it, but I'll try

> Why do we not test `seqan3_submodule_add_subdirectory` and `seqan3_submodule_find_package` also with cmake 3.14? is it guaranteed to not break?

We could, I just want to make sure that our library is working with 3.4 as minimum requirement. Cmake is pretty good with compatibilities between version. I never encountered breakage between versions.
